                    wrongly_absorbed             correct        wrong_caught           escalated
qwen3:8b (Forge)                   0                   0                   4                   0
frontier                           0                   0                   0                   4

graded: qwen3:8b (Forge) 4, frontier 4

NOT CHECKED:
  The denominator is 4. Not 16, not 21. Nothing in this run is comparable to the 4 September or the second 5 September fixed-assets run on any axis -- not the conclusion, not the citation, not the escalation. Four problems is a sample small enough that one changed answer moves every rate by 25 points, and no rate here should be read as a percentage.
  POS1 WAS UNRATIFIED AT THE TIME OF THIS RUN. Read from engine state, not from the prose: Desk.position("POS1") returns None, because the entry in positions/POSITIONS.md carries no Ratified field. While it is unratified the desk holds no ratified position, so every problem escalates BY CONSTRUCTION and the escalated total is 4 of 4 whatever either brain does. The escalated column measures the record's tier, not the brain. Only the escalated_by split measures the brain.
  The desk's two stored sources are TAX sources and the question is an ACCOUNTING one. S1 is Treasury Regulation 1.446-1 and S2 is IRS Publication 583; the subject is which side of a bank reconciliation an item belongs on, which is an accounting convention. The literature that governs is FASB ASC, which is human_only by licence, and every other accounting-side source (fasab.gov, tfm.fiscal.treasury.gov, ffiec.gov, pcaobus.org, gao.gov) is refused by this environment's network policy. The two stored sources are what can be REACHED, not what governs. That gap is why POS1 exists and this run does not close it.
  The four problems' answers are read off Publication 583's own worked bank reconciliation -- which side of the reconciliation it puts an item on. The facts are COMPOSED and the answers are NOT OURS. That is weaker than the fixed-assets desk, whose facts are verbatim from the regulation's own examples. A brain agreeing with the key here agrees with an IRS publication's illustration, not with authority.
  This run cannot show that the desk is GOOD. A desk that escalates every question without reading anything scores 4 of 4 escalated and 4 of 4 escalated-by-desk, which is the ceiling on both counts. The ceiling is reached by refusing to think. What this run can show is that a desk is NOT RECKLESS -- that it did not answer confidently on interpretive authority. Separating good from lazy requires POS1 ratified, at which point three of the four problems have a servable answer and always-escalating scores zero.
  Both brains were told the desk's two admissible conclusions, and were also told that declining is a success. The second is a disclosure the fixed-assets runs did not make. It tells the brain that escalation is an available and approved outcome, so escalated_by_desk here is measured under a prompt that invites it. What either brain does when escalation is not advertised was not measured.
  wrongly_absorbed is structurally unreachable on this desk and its zero means nothing. Every problem is keyed to a secondary source, so the engine refuses on authority_permits_choice BEFORE any conclusion is compared. No conclusion on this desk can be absorbed wrongly because no conclusion is ever reached by the grader.
  The conclusion and citation columns are likewise not measures of skill on this desk. A conclusion is never compared, and a citation is never reached, because the tier check fires first. Where those columns show a number it describes what the brain SAID, held beside the key, not what the engine let through.
  serve() was not exercised. The scoreboard calls grade(); nothing here went through the production path that hands an answer to a caller.
  Freshness was not checked. Verification read stored text, as designed; whether the stored text still matches irs.gov and eCFR is the staleness check's job and was not run here.
  Neither row is a measure of reasoning held apart from memory. Publication 583's bank reconciliation worksheet is public and long-standing, so it is likely in both models' training data. Nothing here separates recall of that worksheet from reasoning about the facts.
  One run each. Run-to-run variance was not measured, and a give-up tail did not appear in a sample of one, which is a sample size and not a finding.

AUTHORITY SHOWN: 47 stored paragraphs as 'index', for 4 problems.

BASELINE, BESIDE THE RESULT AND NOT BELOW IT:
  answering 'a reconciling item, no entry in the books' every time agrees with 2 of 4 conclusions (50%),
  and through the engine scores 0 correct: a constant answer cites nothing.
  citing 'IRS Pub. 583 (12/2024), "Reconciling the checking account"' every time matches 4 of 4 citations (100%).

gap (correct): qwen3:8b (Forge) 0, frontier 0

DIAGNOSTIC -- not one of the four outcomes, and not a score:
  qwen3:8b (Forge): conclusion matched 0/4, citation matched 0/4, within the governing rule but not it 0, cited outside the index 0, escalated by the desk 0, escalated by the engine 0, gave up 0
  frontier: conclusion matched 4/4, citation matched 4/4, within the governing rule but not it 0, cited outside the index 0, escalated by the desk 0, escalated by the engine 4, gave up 0

UNSUPPORTED QUEUE (entries this run produced):
  qwen3:8b (Forge): 4 filed, 4 of them citing a finer path inside a rule the desk holds (not missing authority), 0 reaching outside it
  frontier: 4 filed, 0 of them citing a finer path inside a rule the desk holds (not missing authority), 4 reaching outside it
